June newsletter (#1543)
writethedocs/www: docs/blog/newsletter-june-2021.rst

.. post:: June 03, 2021
   :tags: newsletter

#####################################
Write the Docs Newsletter – June 2021
#####################################

Hi everybody! It's Beth here, writing to you from my gloriously sunny balcony (thank *goodness* rainy May is over). I hope you're all enjoying the weather wherever you are.

> The big thing I want to shout about this month is the `Prague Call for Proposals </conf/prague/2021/cfp/>`__. If you were even sort-of entertaining the thought of submitting a talk idea, take this as your sign to go for it! My favourite thing about giving conference talks is the conversations it starts. It's awesome for helping you find people who care about the same things as you; so if there's something you'd really like to see a talk about this year, I really encourage you to submit one.

Reviewer: Maybe "...to submit your idea" instead of "...to submit one" here?

Author: fixed!

> The big thing I want to shout about this month is the `Prague Call for Proposals </conf/prague/2021/cfp/>`__. If you were even sort-of entertaining the thought of submitting a talk idea, take this as your sign to go for it! My favourite thing about giving conference talks is the conversations it starts. It's awesome for helping you find people who care about the same things as you; so if there's something you'd really like to see a talk about this year, I really encourage you to submit one.

Reviewer 2: "is the conversation" it starts ... or "are the conversations" it starts ... yes?

Author: fixed the mixed singular/plural

-----------------------------------
How to limit who can read your docs
-----------------------------------

A long-time community member started a new job recently, and among the novelties to explore they're figuring out how to allow only authorized users access to some of the docs.

The community once again came to the rescue, with myriad options ranging from platform suggestions to details of how to roll your own or integrate different identity providers or workflows. They also cautioned wisely about making sure the solution was well-documented for future contributors to the docs!

Here are all the options folks contributed to the discussion:

> * If you're writing docs in Confluence or knowledgebase articles in Zendesk, they support limited access

Reviewer: Maybe "...both tools support..." instead of "...they support..." here?

Author: Fixed!

> * You can implement per-location authentication requirements in a nginx server. This supports SSO with JWT (Json Web Tokens)

Reviewer 2: NGINX is always all caped as per their site and is pronounced "engine-X" so I wonder if the leading "a" should be "an".

Author: done

* Netlify offers an `identity and RBAC (role-based access control) solution <https://login-to-gated-site.netlify.app/>`_
* Work with a combination of feature flags and allowlists
* In Apache, you can use the `.htaccess` config file and user credentials
* KnowledgeOwl lets you specify which pages users can see without logging in (or what Google indexes), with groups to manage access
* Last but not least, Redocly offers a RBAC option for configuring developer portals

----------------------------------
Dealing with too-busy stakeholders
----------------------------------

How do you finish the documentation for a feature when a key stakeholder is too busy? What can you do to get the information you need from an unavailable stakeholder before the project's deadline? This month, the Write the Docs community discussed ways to progress on documentation projects when dealing with a too-busy stakeholder.

> First, try writing as much as you can before contacting the stakeholder for help. This allows you to provide detailed information when emailng them about the hold-up. If the question is time-sensitive, it's well worth including a preferred deadline for an answer. As an alternative, try finding another stakeholder who has the knowledge and time to answer your questions. If, despite your efforts, the stakeholder remains unresponsive, you could notify your manager so they can speak with the stakeholder's manager. Finally, consider taking time to build rapport via light and informal chat with the stakeholder. Discussions that aren't *just* about chasing them for help can help establish a trusting relationship, and relieve tension and frustration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, try writing as much as you can before contacting the stakeholder for help. This allows you to provide detailed information when emailing them about the hold-up. If the question is time-sensitive, it's well worth including a preferred deadline for an answer. As an alternative, try finding another stakeholder who has the knowledge and time to answer your questions. If, despite your efforts, the stakeholder remains unresponsive, you could notify your manager so they can speak with the stakeholder's manager. Finally, consider taking time to build rapport via light and informal chat with the stakeholder. Discussions that aren't *just* about chasing them for help can help establish a trusting relationship, and relieve tension and frustration.
```

Author: Fixed

.. post:: June 03, 2021
   :tags: newsletter

#####################################
Write the Docs Newsletter – June 2021
#####################################

Hi everybody! It's Beth here, writing to you from my gloriously sunny balcony (thank *goodness* rainy May is over). I hope you're all enjoying the weather wherever you are.

> The big thing I want to shout about this month is the `Prague Call for Proposals </conf/prague/2021/cfp/>`__. If you were even sort-of entertaining the thought of submitting a talk idea, take this as your sign to go for it! My favourite thing about giving a conference talk is the conversations the talk starts. It's awesome for helping you find people who care about the same things as you; so if there's something you'd really like to see a talk about this year, I really encourage you to submit your idea.

Reviewer 3: <3

On to the stories from Slack! This month we've been talking about prioritization, the challenges of having busy colleagues, and much much more.

-----------------------------------------------------------
Priorities: Document new features or improve existing docs?
-----------------------------------------------------------

> What would you prioritize: customer-requested improvements to existing documentation or working on new feature documentation? We discussed it on Slack this month as an interview question; for many documentarians though, the tension between priotizing new vs. existing docs is a day-to-day reality. Mostly, this means prioritizing which to work on *first* - because neither releasing new features without documentation nor neglecting to update existing documentation are good options.

Reviewer 3: Aren't you prioritizing new *and* existing docs? not vs? Am I being too picky?

Author: Uh - vs sounds right to me, but maybe I'm missing something...

Author: Uh - vs sounds right to me, but maybe I'm missing something...

> What would you prioritize: customer-requested improvements to existing documentation or working on new feature documentation? We discussed it on Slack this month as an interview question; for many documentarians though, the tension between priotizing new vs. existing docs is a day-to-day reality. Mostly, this means prioritizing which to work on *first* - because neither releasing new features without documentation nor neglecting to update existing documentation are good options.

Reviewer 4: Change "...the tension between **priotizing** new..." to "...the tension between **prioritizing** new..."

Author: fixed, thank you!

> One reason to prioritize new features is if it's difficult/impossible to use undocumented features. In this month's discussion though, prioritizing improvements to existing docs had the most support.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One reason to prioritize new features is if they are difficult or impossible to use without documentation. In this month's discussion though, prioritizing improvements to existing docs had the most support.
```

Author: good shout, added

It's not just about keeping users happy, though, because your work has a business impact beyond providing the necessary documentation. For example, technical writers serve as a proxy for new users, so they can provide valuable insights from a user's perspective. The informal testing that writers often do during the documentation process can uncover bugs and usability issues to pass along to the product team. And good docs encourage self-service and reduce the number of customer support contacts. The benefits of good documentation spiral out to many other aspects of the business!

-----------------------------------

> How to limit who can read your docs

Reviewer 3: Not super keen on "limit" without context, but not sure about replacement. 

> Restricting docs to authorized readers?

Author: better, done

-----------------------------------

> A long-time community member started a new job recently, and among the novelties to explore they're figuring out how to allow only authorized users access to some of the docs.

Reviewer 3: "novelty" rubs me the wrong way, but might just be a personal take

Author: eh - I think it fits with Jen's style, gonna keep it

> The community once again came to the rescue, with myriad options ranging from platform suggestions to details of how to roll your own or integrate different identity providers or workflows. They also cautioned wisely about making sure the solution was well-documented for future contributors to the docs!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The community once again came to the rescue, with various options ranging from platform suggestions to details of how to roll your own or integrate different identity providers or workflows. They also mentioned making sure the solution was well-documented for future contributors to the docs!
```

Reviewer 3: That is a chunky sentence.

Author: it is, split up a bit.

Here are all the options folks contributed to the discussion:

* If you're writing docs in Confluence or knowledgebase articles in Zendesk, both tools support limited access
* You can implement per-location authentication requirements in an NGINX server. This supports SSO with JWT (Json Web Tokens)
* Netlify offers an `identity and RBAC (role-based access control) solution <https://login-to-gated-site.netlify.app/>`_
* Work with a combination of feature flags and allowlists
* In Apache, you can use the `.htaccess` config file and user credentials
* KnowledgeOwl lets you specify which pages users can see without logging in (or what Google indexes), with groups to manage access
* Last but not least, Redocly offers a RBAC option for configuring developer portals

----------------------------------

> Dealing with too-busy stakeholders

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Dealing with busy stakeholders
```

----------------------------------

> How do you finish the documentation for a feature when a key stakeholder is too busy? What can you do to get the information you need from an unavailable stakeholder before the project's deadline? This month, the Write the Docs community discussed ways to progress on documentation projects when dealing with a too-busy stakeholder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
How do you finish the documentation for a feature when a key stakeholder is too busy? What can you do to get the information you need from an unavailable stakeholder before the project's deadline? This month, the Write the Docs community discussed ways to progress on documentation projects when dealing with an unavailable stakeholder.
```
